---
title: Target
author: Justin Ball
layout: post
permalink: /2008/02/03/target/
tags:
  - Family
  - Funny
  - Funny
  - shopping
  - target
---

On the way back from Salt Lake we stopped at Target because we always do - there isn't one in Logan. Target is a more interesting shopping experience than Walmart. Target has stuff that is more cosmopolitan than us country bumpkins be gettin at Wally World.

One of the things they have, that I love is Harry and David Moose Munch. That stuff is awesome, but is so Calorie dense that a mere handful contains enough energy to feed a child in a third world country for a year. No wonder people hate America. I ate most of a 900 Calorie box on the way home.

While hanging out in the candy isle looking for a, no way is any of the ingredients in this thing found in nature, candy, Hello Kitty bracelet for my daughter, the woman standing next to me asked if the Valentine sports thing she was holding would be an appropriate gift for a guy. Given that I don't care for much sports I was about to say I have no idea, but she was nice and looked like she needed help so I said, "sure. That's a great gift idea." Then she asked me, "what do guys want for Valentines?"

At first I thought, "well duh," and then I almost said out loud what was being said in my mind. (Don't lie you know exactly what guys want for Valentines. That's why they'll spend $200 on a dozen mostly dead, wilting roses.) Then I thought, "I don't know this person," and my filter kicked in just in time and I replaced "sex" with "chocolate."

She said, "my husband's diabetic."

Well hell.

While walking down the main isle with my wife and four kids I looked up and saw two hookers. Yes, they were hookers. I thought wow they really do have stuff here that they don't have at Walmart.

Target has interesting things that I don't find when I shop elsewhere.